Expt No 04:
Clone a remote Git repository to your local machine.

Historically git used "master" as the default branch. When you run git init, Git automatically created branch named "master".

GitHub (and others GitLab, Bitbucket , Azure Devops) in 2020 changed the default branch to "main". When you create a new repository on GitHub, first branch becomes main. 

  Local Repo                                              v/s  Remote Repo
 
git init: your local repo gets                        Remote repository has 
          "master"                                    "main"

 we can push master explicitly to		      Remote repository contains
 remote by:  git push -u origin master                two branches "main" and 
                                                      your local branch "master"              


Fixing the mismatch master and main, We have two options.
rename your master to main locally by:
         git branch -M main
         git push -u origin main
2. Keep local master and push it. (push master explicitly)
         git push -u origin master

Configuring git for default branch 
As of git2.28 and modern git support to set your local default branch to main by configuring git.
         git config --global init.defaultBranch main


Cloning means getting or downloading entire remote repository to our local machine.
Remote repository is a folder with a name ends in .git which is created by github.com user in remote github server.

To create remote repository , we must create personnel access token (PAT). 
To create PAT - 
1.	Login to github.com with your Email-id and password
2.	Go to profile account settings
3.	Go to Developer settings
4.	Go to personnel access token (classic)
5.	Check on -> repo, workflow, delete packages, write packages.
6.	Click on generate new token
7.	The above steps gives PAT key , copy it , and save it in a file under     your directory.

Now create new remote repository
1.	Go to home page in github.com , click on  new repository button
2.	Give name for repository, this repository created with a url link
3.	Eg. If you given team_project as name, Then url link is
(https://github.com/ your user name /team_project.git) This is remote repository.
	
Cloning remote git repository to your local machine. 
1.	Clone remote git repository to your own folder (Eg: naveen)
2.	Being in your own directory : Execute command  
        git clone “url link of remote git repository” . 
        This command downloads remote git repository (team_project) into
        your own directory.
3.	Change working directory to remote git repository by cmd:   
        cd team_project
4.	When you are in remote git repository your working branch shows  (main). 
        (because default working branch for remote git repository is main).
5.	Now your local working branch and remote working branch becomes same
        (matches).

Update and push (Note you cloned empty  remote git repository "team_project")
1.	creating one file by notepad, add it to staging area and commit that
        file.
2.	Now, git push -u origin main  (After pushing github remote repository
                                         is updated)
3.	Check remote github repository in your github.com home page.

Suppose if you are in local branch master
1.	Clone empty remote git repository : git clone "url link of remote git
        to your own directory.                                  repository"
2.	create one file by notepad, add it to staging area and commit that.
3.	connect your local repo to github: 
           git remote add origin "url link of remote git repository"
4.	change your local branch master to main:
           git branch -M main
5.	push to remote github: git push -u origin main
